# UniversityRecommendations

With over 25,000 higher education institutions world wide, high school seniors applying to college have so many option to choose from. This program analyzes the list of top 200 colleges in North America and returns university recommendations tailored to a user based on a various metrics such as student enrollment, campus setting, campus location, academic calendar, and type of university. Students can enter their preferences on this application, and our program will run our algorithm and provide personalized reccomendations for each user. There is also a feature to view common trends and statistics for each university based on certain attributes. Some correlations include tution to country rank, tuition to user's income level, and country rank to internal schoools. 

Harshini: All University Data is web scraped from the following website (https://www.4icu.org/top-universities-north-america/) using JSoup. The reccomendation and graph algorithms operate on a data set scraped from the site with the following information mapped to each of the 200 universities: Student Enrollment Size, Campus Setting, Campus Location, Public/Private, Academic Calendar, Admission Rate, Financial Aid, Tuition, and World Rank. 

Durga: The recommendation algorithm is as follows: it takes the user's selections of enrollment size, campus setting, school status (public or private), the academic calendar system, the location (specifically the state - full name) and how they weight these preferences and outputs 3 schools that fit some of their criteria. It starts with the list of schools that are in their selection that they indicated as their most important preference, and slowly works down each preference until there is no overlap of schools. This algorithm is rooted in affiliation networks. Essentially each map represents an affiliation network where the schools are nodes that are connected to their specific affiliation. By getting which categories that the user prefers, it is essentially adding weights to these edges that influence the recommendation. The idea is based of "focal closure", that the user is more likely to be interested in a school because they share the same affilliation.

Divya: The algorithm for Question 1 (What universities are in this state?) is as follows: it takes the user's selection of a state (full name) in the United States or Canada and outputs a list of universities that are located in this state. It simply uses the hashmap created during the web scrapping process which maps state names to a list of universities in that state, and accesses the list for the particular state the user inputted.

Divya: The algorithm for Question 2 (What universities meet my tuition goal?) is as follows: it takes the user's selection of a tuition (in US dollars) and outputs 10 of all the universities that have a maximum tuition rate at most the value of the tuition the user inputted. It simply uses the hashmap created during the web scrapping process which maps schools to their tuition range, and adds universities to the output list who meet the desired tuition (if the tuition is given as a range, it consideres the maximum value).

Divya: The algorithm for Question 3 (What universities meet my admission rate goal?) is as follows: it takes the user's input of an admission rate (%) and outputs 10 of all universities which have an admission rate of at least the value desired by the user. It simply uses the hashmap created during the web scrapping process which maps schools to their admission rate, iterates through each school in this map, and those to the output list whos rate is at least that inputted by the user.

Divya: The algorithm for Question 4 (What universities are in my preferred region?) is as follows: it takes the user's input for a campus setting/region (rural, suburban, urban) and outputs 10 of all universities which are located in such a setting. It simply uses the hashmap created during the web scrapping process which maps each campus setting/region to a list of schools in that region, and accesses the list for the particular region the user inputted.

Divya: The algorithm for Question 5 (What is the relationship between university rank and tuition?) is as follows: first a hashmap mapping university worldwide rank to tuition is created (using rank and tuition maps created durign web scrapping process). Then, each entry in this map is converted to a point in a line graph (where the x axis represents worldwide rank and the y axis represents average tuition in US $). These points are plotted on the graph, connected by lines to view the trends, and outputted to the user.

Divya: The algorithm for Question 6 (What is the relationship between state and its number of universities?) is as follows: first a hashmap mapping state names to number of universities is that state is created (simply by using the map creating in web scrapping which maps states to list of its universities, and mapping state to the size of that list). Then, each entry in this map is converted to a single bar (random color) in a bar chart (where the each bar along the x axis represents a state in the US or Canada and the y axis represents number of universities). These bars are added to the bar graph, and information about each bar (state name and number of universities) is printed on the console in this order, and this this outputted to the user.

Divya: The algorithm for Question 7 (What is the relationship between region and its number of universities?) is as follows: first a hashmap mapping region types (rural, suburban, urban) to number of universities in that region is created (simply by using the map created in web scrapping which maps region type to list of universities with that campus setting, and mapping region type to size of that list). Then, each entry in this map is converted to a single bar (random color) in a bar chart (where each bar along the x axis represents a region type/campus setting and the y axis represents number of universities). These bars are added to the bar graph, and information about each bar (region type and number) is printed on the console in this order, and this graph is outputted to the user. 

Durga and Divya: In addition to the algorithms there is a basic GUI (App.java) that allows the user to interact and ask specific questions (see screenshots for details). Durga worked on setting up the GUI and displaying the recommendations and Divya worked on displaying the graphs and statistics. 

While each section is associated with a specific person, there was collaboration throughout the process if any person needed help completing their individual part. 
